---
applyTo: 'src/be/Bootstrap/**'
---

# Bootstrapper Specific Instructions
These are guideline for working on the Bootstrap C# project that creates test data in the integration testing environment for Mergician.

- This is a console applications, so do not use async/await unless a third library used only provides async methods.
- Be idempotent, so the boot strapper can be re-run after interruption without duplicating entries.
- This is not a user facing application, it is a developer tool, so failing gracefully is not a concern.
  - It is more important to fail immediately with a clear exception, so it is easier to see what went wrong.
  - When JSON deserialisation fails, throw an exception and abort.
  - If an unexpected exception happens, let it throw and abort the application. Do not add catch blocks to try and fail gracefully.
  - However when retrying is required, or if using a library that may throw for states we do not consider unexpected, it is ok to catch exceptions.
  - It is also ok to catch exceptions in finally blocks.
- If any setup step fails or something it not configured as expected, immediately throw an exception and abort. Unless the bootstrapper exits with an exit code of 1, assume no human will come to look at the log and investigate any warnings that were noted. It is important to fail with an error if anything unexpected happens so a human will know to investigate. Only exit cleanly if we are sure a fully functional environment was created.
- Performance is not a concern, prefer clarity and maintainability.
  - e.g., use string.Contains instead of IndexOf for readability.
- Use ./data/logs/ for any diagnostic log files generated by the bootstrapper.
